Ansible 
. Fundametals 
. Key Components
. Best Practices
. Spring Boot REST Deployment
. CI with Ansible 
. Application Deployment 
. Provision Docker Host 
. Docker and Ansible 

FUNDAMENTALS
What is Ansible?
Ansible is an opensource IAC tool for installing and configuring infrastructure
It is Radically simple IT automation engine that can automate 
. Cloud Provisioning 
. Configuration Management
. Intra-service orchestration


Why Ansible?
. Efficient 
  . Doesnt require any custom agent (agentless) or software to install 
  . Ansible works by connecting to your nodes and pushing out small programs called 
    "Ansible Modules" to them.
. Secure
  . No agent is required
  . Uses OpenSSH to encrypt communications

TERMS 
Inventory: Ansible works across multiple systems at the same time. 
It does this by selecting portions of systems listed in Ansible Inventory file, which defaults 
to being saved in the /etc/ansible/hosts directory

examples
[webservers]         [appservers]      [dbservers] # group name
192.162.35.140       10.110.140.10     172.35.0.5  # Server Ip address (hosts)
192.168.35.141       10.110.141.10

Host: A local remote machine that Ansible manages. 
They use similar cvariables assigned to them, and they can also be organised as groups

Groups: Consist of several hosts assigmed to a pool that can be conviently targeted togethes
they also share similar variables assigned to them.

Playbooks: Playbook is the language in which ansible orchestrates and configures, 
adminsters and deploys systems.

Play: A play is a mapping between a set of hosts selected by a host specifier and the task 
which run on those hosts to define the role that those systems will perform.

Task: Task is a action with a name and optionallu some other keywords that calls modules.

Modules: are units of work that Ansible ships out to remote hosts. 
Ansible refers to the collection of available modules as Libraries.

Library: A collection of modules made available by Ansible or to a playbook.

Installing Ansible 
using YUM:
$ sudo yum install ansible
using APT:
$ sudo apt-get install software-properties-common 
$ sudo apt-add-repository ppa:ansible/ansible
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install ansible
Using PIP: 
sudo easy_install pip 
sudo pip install ansible

CONTROL MACHINE REQUIREMENTS
. Python 2 (version 2.6 or later) or Python 3 (version 3.5 or later)
. Windows is not supported for the control machine
   
Ad-Hoc Commands for Ansible:
 $ ansible [pattern] -m [module] -a "[module options]"
 ad-hoc commands offer a quick and easy way to execute ansible commands for automation. 
 the advantage of of these ad-hoc commands are they leverage ansible modules which are also IDEMPOTENT

 The Importance of IDEMPOTENCE
 Idemotence : the property of certain operations in mathematics and computer scice, that 
 can be applied multiple times without changing the outcome. for ansible ths means after 1 run of the playbook to set 
 the desired state, futher runs of the playbook will not change the state of the system.

Why Ad-hoc is important 
. Rebooting a Server
. Managing services 
. Managing files 
. Fact Gathering 
. Connectivity Testing

Stat : Retrives facts about the module 
Copy : copy command fot for ansible 
Terms
. Inventory
. Host
. Group
. Playbook
. Playbook
. Task
. Modules
. Library